Now that we learned what the core idea is and how we transfer data and that data is king in a rest API,
let's have a look at the routing,
so how do we communicate between client and server?
So we get client and server and on the server, we got our server side logic, we reach out to databases and so
on.
Now we send a request from the client to the server and how do we do that?
Well in a traditional web app as we built it thus far
in the course, we did it of course by simply adding a link on our html page for example or we had
a form with a button and we defined the form action and the method.
Well it's not that far off for rest
APIs. We still send the request
to a combination of http method, also called http verb and a path on the server.
So what we defined thus far still will be used kind of, we still define such paths, on the server, on the
server side routing where we wait for incoming requests and we also define certain http methods we want
to handle for these paths so that not all requests can reach all paths.
These requests would be sent from the client through, when working in the browser, through asynchronous
javascript,
so with the fetch API for example or with Ajax and on mobile apps and so on, we also get special clients.
The core thing here is we in the end still send normal requests,
these are totally normal requests that just don't expect any html response and we send a combination
of http method and path and this is how we communicate with our server.
Now in the rest world or in the API world, we like to call these things here API andpoints,
so when you hear me talk about an API endpoint, I'm talking about the combination of a http method like
post and get and the respective path. These are the endpoints we defined on our rest API
and we defined a logic that should execute on the server when a request reaches such an endpoint.
Now talking about http methods, there are more methods than just get and post. I did mention this before
in the course but when working with the browser only and not with javascript in the browser but just
with forms and links, then we only have get and post available.
These are the two methods the browser natively knows or the browser html elements know
so to say. When using asynchronous requests through javascript or when building mobile apps and so on and
using their respective http clients, you have access to more http methods
and we actually already saw that in the asynchronous requests module of this course. Besides get which is
responsible for getting a resource from the server and post which is responsible for posting a resource
to the server which means create it on the server or append it to an existing let's say array of resources,
besides these two methods which we re-used a lot throughout the course, we have access to put which we would
use if we want to put a resource onto the server, which means we want to create it or overwrite an existing
resource,
posts will never overwrite or should never overwrite.
We also have access to patch which is used for updating parts of an existing resource, so not overwrite
it entirely necessarily but update parts of it.
We have access to delete which allows us to delete a resource on the server and also there is a special
options http method which we will use too in this module
indirectly though, it is sent automatically by the browser and I will come back to it.
This basically is a request which the browser will send automatically to find out if the next request
it tries to do,
for example delete something, if that is actually allowed and I will come back to that.
So these are the http methods
we will work with and the methods we typically work with when building a rest API
especially the first five ones, the orange ones are important.
Now let me also highlight that in theory, you can do whatever you want when a request with a certain
method reaches a certain path.
So for the rest world, we should use a post request to create or append a resource.
No one is stopping you from deleting something on a server because ultimately, you only define a method
path pair on your server side and then you run any code you want
and what happens in that code is not restricted by the method that was used to execute that code.
You can restrict it yourself and you want to implement the rest API that follows these ideas here but
you don't have to
and that's just important to highlight.
It's common and it's a good practice, it's a best practice to use these methods in this way because then
anyone who's using your API clearly knows what to expect to happen on the server for a given method
but in theory no one is stopping you from doing something else.
So these are the http methods.